Rework "what's new" page (#663)
GoogleChrome/developer.chrome.com: site/en/docs/extensions/whatsnew/index.md

Check this page often to learn about changes to the Chrome extensions platform,
its documentation, and related policy or other changes.

### New "Introducing chrome.scripting" blog post
#### Published 2021.06.08

The [Scripting API](/docs/extensions/reference/scripting/) is a new Manifest V3 API focused on,
well, scripting. In this post we dig into the motivations for this change and take a closer look at
some of the new capabilities it introduces. [Read the post](/blog/crx-scripting-api).

### ES modules for service workers

> #### Launched in Chrome 91

Reviewer: What do you think about s/Launched/Available?  That way, it doesn't imply that something is necessary "launched", and we can use it for things like "Available in Chrome Canary" for experimental behaviors, etc

Author: launched -> general availability

> JavaScript supports modules in service workers. In your manifest, specify a module in your manifest:

Reviewer 2: Nit

```suggestion
Chrome now supports modules in service workers. In your manifest, specify a module in your manifest:
```

Terminology is a slightly wonky here. The JavaScript language doesn't have a concept of service workers or even workers. "Web Workers" (which service workers inherit from) were originally specified in the W3C and are currently maintained as part of the [HTML Living Standard](https://html.spec.whatwg.org/#toc-workers).

```js
"background": {
  "service_worker": "script.js",
  "type": "module"
}
```

> This loads the worker script as an ES module, so you can import it in other worker
> scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This loads the worker script as an ES module, so you can use the `import` keyword in the worker script.
```

I think this is more relevant, but feel free to run it by Simeon, too

Reviewer 2: Hm, I think a slightly different wording would be better. 

```suggestion
This loads the worker script as an ES module, which allows you to use the `import` keyword in the
worker's script to import other modules.
```

My suggestion feels a little clunky to me; the key part I wanted to get across is that declaring your service worker as a module allows you to import module scripts. If you don't specify `"type": "module"` in the manifest, the service worker is loaded as a classic script and cannot use dynamic import (`import("./file.js").then((module) => { self.myMethod = module.myMethod })`) or static import (`import { myMethod } from "./file.js";`) in your service worker.

### chrome.action.getUserSettings() available
#### Launched in Chrome 91

The new
[chrome.action.getUserSettings()](/docs/extensions/reference/action/#method-getUserSettings)
method allows extensions to determine if the user has pinned the extension to the main toolbar.

### chrome.scripting.removeCSS() available
#### Launched in Chrome 90

The new [chrome.scripting.removeCSS()](/docs/extensions/reference/scripting/#method-removeCSS)
method allows extensions to remove CSS that was previously inserted
via [chrome.scripting.insertCSS()](/docs/extensions/reference/scripting/#method-insertCSS).

> It replaces [chrome.tabs.removeCSS()](/docs/extensions/reference/tabs/#method-removeCSS)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It replaces [chrome.tabs.removeCSS()](/docs/extensions/reference/tabs/#method-removeCSS).
```

### chrome.scripting.executeScript() results include frameId
#### Launched in Chrome 90

Results returned from
[chrome.scripting.executeScript()](/docs/extensions/reference/scripting/#method-executeScript)
now include the [frameId](/docs/extensions/reference/webNavigation/#a-note-about-frame-ids).

> The frameId indicates the frame from which the result is from, allowing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `frameId` property indicates the frame from which the result is from, allowing
```

extensions to easily associate results with the individual frames when injecting in multiple frames.

### New API for tab groups (MV3 only)
#### Launched in Chrome 89

> There is now a [chrome.tabGroups](/docs/extensions/reference/tabGroups/) API to let extensions read

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The new [chrome.tabGroups](/docs/extensions/reference/tabGroups/) API to lets extensions read
```

To match the other entries

Check this page often to learn about changes to the Chrome extensions platform,
its documentation, and related policy or other changes.

> ### Chrome 91 (stable on May 25, 2021)

Reviewer: These dates are not guaranteed.  I wonder if we should include some general language to that effect somewhere?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Chrome 91 ([targeting May 25, 2021][release-schedule])

[release-schedule]: https://www.chromestatus.com/features/schedule
```

Attempts to address Devlin's concerns by using future-facing language. Link optional.

Chrome 91 adds the following features to the extensions platform.

#### ES modules for service workers

> JavaScript supports modules in service workers. Setting 'module' type by the constructor's type attribute, worker scripts are loaded as ES modules and the import statement is available on worker contexts. (https://www.chromestatus.com/guide/edit/4609574738853888)

Reviewer: > Setting 'module' type by the constructor's type attribute, worker scripts are loaded as ES modules and the import statement is available on worker contexts.

But in extensions, the worker is automatically registered.  Instead, developers should specify it in their manifest:

```
"background": {
  "service_worker": "script.js",
  "type": "module"
}
```

Relatedly, we should update the relevant docs for that, and link to them here.

Reviewer 2: @rdcronin, is this landing in 91? I hadn't heard an update yet about when it might land.
 
```suggestion
Chrome [is currently incubating][sw-module-feature] module support in service workers. As part of this work, we are also exploring exposign modules in extension service workers. See [background service workers](#TODO) for additional details.

[sw-module-feature]: [https://www.chromestatus.com/feature/4609574738853888]
```

Also Updates the link to point to the public version of the page. TBH, though, I'm not sure we should.

+1 to documenting how to use SW modules on another page & linking here. I think we can add a section to a page on background service workers with a warning aside that notes this feature is in development and can only be used in Canary or something.

Reviewer: Use in extensions for the top-level SW is in M92.  I think module SWs on the web landed in M91, but I'd argue that that's not really something that fits into a "what's new in extensions" log

Author: Updated per review comments and created b/188936301 for the additional module docs work.

#### chrome.action.getUserSettings() available

> The new chrome.action.getUserSettings() API allows extensions to determine if the user has pinned the extension to the main toolbar.

Reviewer 3: put this method call in backticks?

Reviewer: and also link to it?

https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/action/#method-getUserSettings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The new [`chrome.action.getUserSettings()`][get-user-settings] API allows extensions to determine if the user has pinned the extension to the main toolbar.

[get-user-settings]: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/action/#method-getUserSettings
```

### Chrome 90 (stable on April 13, 2021)

#### New chrome.scripting.removeCSS() method (MV3 only)

> The `chrome.scripting.removeCSS()` method lets extensions remove CSS that was previously inserted via

Reviewer 3: put `insertCSS` call in backticks too

Reviewer: and link to both, or to scripting docs

> The `chrome.scripting.removeCSS()` method lets extensions remove CSS that was previously inserted via
> chrome.scripting.insertCSS(). It replaces the MV2 method `chrome.tabs.removeCSS()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`chrome.scripting.removeCSS()`][remove-css] method lets extensions remove CSS that was
previously inserted via [`chrome.scripting.insertCSS()`][insert-css]. It replaces the MV2 method
`chrome.tabs.removeCSS()`.

[remove-css]: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/scripting/#method-removeCSS
[insert-css]: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/scripting/#method-insertCSS
```

#### chrome.scripting.executeScript() results now include frameId

> Results returned from `chrome.scripting.executeScript()` now include the frameId.  The frameId indicates the frame from which the result is from, allowing extensions to easily associate results with the individual frames when injecting in multiple frames.

Reviewer: Should we put frameId in backticks, too?  And _possibly_ (but not necessarily) link to https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/webNavigation/#a-note-about-frame-ids?

Side note (not for this PR): We should pull frame IDs and tab IDs into a central article; both are used far more broadly than just the tabs / webNavigation APIs...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Results returned from [`chrome.scripting.executeScript()`][execute-script] now include the [`frameId`][frame-id].  The frameId indicates the frame from which the result is from, allowing extensions to easily associate results with the individual frames when injecting in multiple frames.

[execute-script]: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/scripting/#method-executeScript
[frame-id]:  https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/webNavigation/#a-note-about-frame-ids
```

### April 8, 2021: Extension Manifest Converter

The Chrome Extensions team has open sourced [Extension Manifest

> Converter](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/extension-manifest-converter), a Python tool that
> helps to convert extensions to Manifest V3. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Converter](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/extension-manifest-converter), a Python tool that
automates some of the mechanical aspects of converting extensions to Manifest V3. 
```

Tweak based on @rdcronin's feedback that the previous language implied too strongly that the tool would

### Chrome 89 (stable on March 9, 2021)

> #### New chrome.tabGroups API

Reviewer: Should we call out (MV3 Only) in the title, as we do elsewhere?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### New chrome.tabGroups API (MV3 only)
```

> Added the chrome.tabGroups API to let extensions read and manipulate tab groups. Manifest V3 only.

Reviewer: link + backticks

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Added the [`chrome.tabGroups`][tab-groups] API to let extensions read and manipulate tab groups. Manifest V3 only.

[tab-groups]: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/reference/tabGroups/
```

> Added the chrome.tabGroups API to let extensions read and manipulate tab groups. Manifest V3 only.

Reviewer: For consistency and polish, can we use a consistent style of description for "new thing introduced"?

It seems like most of these are more descriptive ("The <x> API" or "Something is now") vs this one, which is a past-tense of what we did ("Added the").  And the one below (web accessible resources) is another style yet.

WDYT?

#### Customizable permissions for MV3 Web Accessible Resources

> Manifest now supports permission definitions to restrict resources based on either the accessing site origin or extension ID.https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/mv3/manifest/web_accessible_resources/

Reviewer: phrasing sounds a little abrupt here.  (At the very least, "The manifest", but perhaps better would be "You can now specify..." or "Web-accessible resources can be...", etc?)  Also linkify text, rather than drop the plaintext link?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Web accessible resources][war] definitions in Manifest V3 have changed in order to allow extensions to restrict resource access based on the requester's origin or extension ID. 

[war]: https://developer.chrome.com/docs/extensions/mv3/manifest/web_accessible_resources/
```

### Chrome 88 (stable on January 19, 2021)

#### Manifest V3 launched

Manifest V3 launched in Chrome 88. This is a major update to the extensions platform; see Overview of Manifest V3 for a summary of new and changed features. Extensions may continue to use Manifest V2 for now, but this will be phased out in the near future. We strongly recommend that you use MV3 for any new extensions, and begin to migrate existing extensions to MV3 as soon as possible.

> {% if false %}

Reviewer 3: Is the idea to actually hide old stuff? If so, please add a comment here.

Reviewer 2: Can we just delete this content? The PR appears to completely replace it. If we really need to bring it back for some reason we can go back in git history.
